.TH aecat "1" "March 2005" "aecat (Aewan Ascii Art Editor)"
.SH NAME
aecat \- display an aewan document
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aecat
[-b] [-c] [-{n|N}] [{-p | -l <layer_num>}] [-f <format>] [-o <output_file>] inputfile

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is an utility program that will convert an aewan document
to ANSI escape sequences so that it can be rendered on a standard
terminal. Alternatively, it can also generate HTML code for displaying
the document in a web page. Any particular layer of the document
may be converted, or you may request a composite of all layers.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
specifies output format - can "text", "html" or "comment". Default is "text".
The "comment" format extracts document metadata.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
prepend a 'clear screen' escape sequence (only valid when outputting
text).
.TP
\fB\-o\fR\fI<file>\fR
writes output to specified file rather than stdout
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
disables output of color (only characters will be printed).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR\fI<layer_no>\fR
specifies which layer of the document is to be used
(must be an index, not a layer name). By default, layer 0 will be used.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
displays the number of layers in the file.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
exports a composite, that is, overlays all visible layers,
paying attention to layer transparency, etc. The size of the
composite will be the size of the first layer
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
suppress output of newlines
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
prints a short help text

.SH AUTHORS
This program is part of the Aewan Ascii Art Editor package.
See aewan(1) for author information.

.SH LICENSE
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Bruno Takahashi C. de Oliveira. All rights reserved.

This program is licensed under the GNU General Public License,
version 2 or, at your option, any later version. For full license
information, please refer to the COPYING file that accompanies
the program.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBaewan\fR(1), \fBaewan\fR(5), \fBaemakeflic\fR(1)

