.TH aewan "1" "August 2004" "aewan (Aewan Ascii Art Editor)"

.SH NAME
aewan \- An ascii-art editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aewan [\fIfilename\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Aewan is a multi-layered ascii-art/animation editor that produces both
stand-alone cat-able art files and an easy-to-parse format for integration in
your terminal applications (for information about the file format,
see the aewan(5) manpage).

If you invoke the program without a command-line argument, it will
open an untitled document for you to edit. If you supply an argument,
it must be the name of an aewan file you wish to open. That file
must exist, or an error will occur.

The aewan menu is accessed via the F1 function key. Some terminal emulators,
like xfce4-terminal, use F1 to access the terminal help. If the F1 function
key has been assigned it must be disabled to use aewan. For example, in the
xfce4-terminal emulator, open the terminal preferences (Edit -> Preferences),
select the "Advanced" tab, and disable the Help Menu shortcut.

.SH PROJECT HOME PAGE
The Aewan Project's official homepage is the following:
	

	\fBhttp://aewan.sourceforge.net\fR

There you will find author information, FAQ, links to the latest
version of the program, etc.

.SH AUTHORS
The developers can be contacted through the following e-mail address:

	\fBaewan-devel@lists.sf.net\fR

People who have worked or are currently working on this project:

  * Bruno T. C. de Oliveira (brunotc@gmail.com)
  * Peep Pullerits (http://solicit.estprog.ee; solicit@estprog.ee)
  * Praveen Kurup <praveen_kurup@jasubhai.com>
  * Gerfried Fuchs <alfie@ist.org>

.SH LICENSE INFORMATION
Copyright (c) 2004 Bruno Takahashi C. de Oliveira. All rights reserved.

This program is licensed under the GNU General Public License,
version 2 or, at your option, any later version. For full license
information, please refer to the COPYING file that accompanies
the program.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBaecat\fR(1), \fBaewan\fR(5)
